[CrateDB] Add support for data acquisition and data export (#148)
daq-tools/kotori: doc/source/database/cratedb.rst

nested or not, but the indexing can be turned off selectively.

Query interface
===============

Languages
---------
CrateDB supports SQL as query language. Please inspect the :ref:`cratedb-query-examples`,
as well as the corresponding upstream documentation about how to `insert data`_ and
`query data`_.

Protocols
---------
CrateDB clients communicate to servers using either HTTP, or by using the `PostgreSQL
wire protocol`_, version 3.

************
Key features
************

This section enumerates the key features of CrateDB, as advertised on its documentation.

At a glance
===========

- Use standard SQL via the PostgreSQL wire protocol or an HTTP API.
- Dynamic table schemas and queryable objects provide document-oriented features in
  addition to the relational features of SQL.
- Support for time-series data, realtime full-text search, geospatial data types and
  search capabilities.
- Horizontally scalable, highly available and fault tolerant clusters that run very
  well in virtualized and containerised environments.
- Extremely fast distributed query execution.
- Auto-partitioning, auto-sharding, and auto-replication.
- Self-healing and auto-rebalancing.

> - User-defined functions (UDFs) can be used to extend the functionality of CrateDB.

Author: User-defined functions are not mentioned on the canonical CrateDB README at all. It should be added.

-- https://github.com/crate/crate/blob/master/README.rst

Reviewer: - https://github.com/crate/crate/pull/14308

- CrateDB Admin, a graphical, web-based user interface, is built into CrateDB.
- ``crash`` is a command-line based terminal program, similar to ``psql``, but
  with a bit more convenience.

.. _cratedb-query-examples:

**************
Query examples
**************

This section demonstrates a few query examples from CrateDB's documentation.

Typical queries
===============

.. code-block:: sql

    -- Aggregations with date range filtering and
    -- time bucketing using specified intervals.
    SELECT
        DATE_BIN('5 min'::INTERVAL, time::TIMESTAMPTZ, 0) AS time,
        MEAN(fields['humidity']) AS humidity
    FROM
        readings
    WHERE
        time > NOW() - '1 hour'::INTERVAL
    GROUP BY
        time
    ORDER BY
        time;

.. code-block:: sql

    -- An SQL DDL statement defining a custom schema for holding sensor data.
    CREATE TABLE iot_data (
      timestamp TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
      sensor_data OBJECT (DYNAMIC) AS (
        temperature FLOAT,
        humidity FLOAT,
        location OBJECT (DYNAMIC) AS (
          latitude DOUBLE PRECISION, longitude DOUBLE PRECISION
        )
      )

>     );

Author: That's the only SQL DDL statement within the "query examples" section. Others, including a few other CrateDB special data types, may be sensible.

Reviewer: Any chance of using `GEO_POINT` maybe?

.. include:: ../_resources.rst

.. _database-cratedb:

#######
CrateDB
#######

*****
About
*****

`CrateDB`_ is a distributed and scalable SQL database for storing and analyzing massive
amounts of data in near real-time, even with complex queries. It is PostgreSQL-compatible,
and based on `Lucene`_.

*******
Details
*******

This section summarizes CrateDB's data model and query interface.

Data model
==========

As a time-series/document/OLAP/RDBMS database with an SQL interface, CrateDB stores records
into tables. Tables are grouped into schemas, which is equivalent to the concept of hosting

> multiple databases on the same server instance.

Author: @proddata mentioned that, at least from a PostgreSQL perspective, databases are more like catalogs. Thanks.

        MAX(totaltime) AS sess_len,
        COUNT(session_id) AS sess_count,
        COUNT(DISTINCT psessions.user_id) AS visitors,
        MIN(event_time) AS event_time
      FROM
        ppageviews
        JOIN psessions ON ppageviews.user_id = psessions.user_id
      GROUP BY
        ppageviews.user_id,
        psessions.session_id
    )
    SELECT
          MIN(event_time) AS event_date,
          SUM(visitors) AS tot_vis,
          SUM(visitors) FILTER (WHERE sess_count = 1) AS new_vis,
          SUM(visitors) FILTER (WHERE sess_count > 1) AS ret_vis,
          AVG(sess_len) AS tot_avg,
          AVG(sess_len) FILTER (WHERE sess_count = 1) AS new_avg,
          AVG(sess_len) FILTER (WHERE sess_count > 1) AS ret_avg
    FROM visits
    UNION
    SELECT
          MIN(event_time) AS event_date,
          SUM(visitors) AS tot_vis,
          SUM(visitors) FILTER (WHERE sess_count = 1) AS new_vis,
          SUM(visitors) FILTER (WHERE sess_count > 1) AS ret_vis,
          AVG(sess_len) AS tot_avg,
          AVG(sess_len) FILTER (WHERE sess_count = 1) AS new_avg,
          AVG(sess_len) FILTER (WHERE sess_count > 1) AS ret_avg
    FROM pvisits;

*****
Usage
*****

Purpose
=======

> Kotori uses CrateDB to store **timeseries-data** of data acquisition channels.

Author: ```suggestion
Kotori uses CrateDB to store **time-series data** of data acquisition channels.
```
